README.md, before:

SDL_Universe
============

SDL_Universe is a small and basic software renderer written in C++ with SDL2. It is just a hobby project for my own entertainment, but you can use it as you want, and also every contributor is welcome here.



Disclaimer
----------

This is purely a hobby project, I started it to learn and experience 3D programming closely. It should not be compared to modern 3D graphic libraries, such as OpenGL or Direct3D. One could see it as a totally needless and unnecessary project, but I want to work on it, so I will. Feature request and improvement tips are welcome, but I want to keep the project very simple, keep that in mind.



Planned or already implemented features
------------------

* Render colored points, lines and filled triangles positioned in 3D space (these are the primitives)
* SU::Model to bundle these primitives, also to save and load them via a file
* SU::Object tree-like hierarchy to group and easily manipulate SU::Models (transform a group of them at once, etc.)
* Fast average distance-based shorting, optional Z-buffer
* Very basic lighting system (ambiance, directional and point light sources)
* "Collision" detectiton, line and triangle cutting appropriately (for example if a line goes through a filled triangle, the line should be cut to 2 pieces)
* **Documentation**
* ...



"Wishlist" features
-------------------

* Texturing
* Multiple backends (immediate OpenGL for example)
* A dynamic Level of Detail system
* Alpha channel for colors (for example half-opaque triangle)
* Higher level bodies (sphere, cylinder, cone, etc.) and runtime tessellation
* ...



What is done
------------
* Can bundle primitives in a SU::Model and render them (well, triangle drawing isn't implemented yet)
* Can create tree-like SU::Object hierarchy
* Transformations work and inherit properly
* Camera management is fully implemented



Notes and known bugs
--------------------

* The way to display an SDL_Surface with SDL2 is a bit complicated. You need an SDL_Window, an SDL_Renderer for that window, an SDL_Texture to render, and finally an SDL_Surface to create the texture from.
	It seems that the process of this takes up 9ms on my machine, no matter if I draw 1 single line on a surface or a hundred. I should find a faster way to display a single SDL_Surface in the window.

	* Probably SDL_UpdateTexture() is what slows down the process, from 3ms to 10ms latency.
	* SDL1 port added, it is faster, see below

* When something is too close to the projection plane or is behind it, the program will freeze or stutter.
* Only the triangles facing the eye should be rendered. Don't forget to implement this.
* The current implementation is **not** idiot-proof, use everything as intended. Variable and function names are pretty straightforward, but if something does not work, feel free to ask.


SDL1 vs. SDL2
-------------

The library can be compiled with SDL1 or SDL2, because it is only using SDL_Surface, which is the same in both SDL versions.
But I think SDL1 is better, because it is simpler (there is no separate renderer, texture, etc.). The benchmarks also tell the same:

Frames per second:
* With SDL1:
	* idle: 51-52
	* moving: 51-52
* With SDL2:
	* idle: 45-46
	* moving: 45-46

Yet there is a strange problem with SDL1. The "occlusion culling" is not working correctly, it does not render things that are in front of the camera, but go out of the visible space. But this has nothing to do with SDL itself, so I don't really know what's going on.


Licence
-------

Not yet chosen, likely zlib or CC-by.



Contact
-------
You can contact me here on GitHub or via email at iamsemmu AT gmail DOT com

Commit message:

2D drawing algorithms changed, the strange bug with SDL1.2 fixed.

README.md, after:

SDL_Universe
============

SDL_Universe is a small and basic software renderer written in C++ with SDL2. It is just a hobby project for my own entertainment, but you can use it as you want, and also every contributor is welcome here.



Disclaimer
----------

This is purely a hobby project, I started it to learn and experience 3D programming closely. It should not be compared to modern 3D graphic libraries, such as OpenGL or Direct3D. One could see it as a totally needless and unnecessary project, but I want to work on it, so I will. Feature request and improvement tips are welcome, but I want to keep the project very simple, keep that in mind.



Planned or already implemented features
------------------

* Render colored points, lines and filled triangles positioned in 3D space (these are the primitives)
* SU::Model to bundle these primitives, also to save and load them via a file
* SU::Object tree-like hierarchy to group and easily manipulate SU::Models (transform a group of them at once, etc.)
* Fast average distance-based shorting, optional Z-buffer
* Very basic lighting system (ambiance, directional and point light sources)
* "Collision" detectiton, line and triangle cutting appropriately (for example if a line goes through a filled triangle, the line should be cut to 2 pieces)
* **Documentation**
* ...



"Wishlist" features
-------------------

* Texturing
* Multiple backends (immediate OpenGL for example)
* A dynamic Level of Detail system
* Alpha channel for colors (for example half-opaque triangle)
* Higher level bodies (sphere, cylinder, cone, etc.) and runtime tessellation
* ...



What is done
------------
* Can bundle primitives in a SU::Model and render them (well, triangle drawing isn't implemented yet)
* Can create tree-like SU::Object hierarchy
* Transformations work and inherit properly
* Camera management is fully implemented



Notes and known bugs
--------------------

* The way to display an SDL_Surface with SDL2 is a bit complicated. You need an SDL_Window, an SDL_Renderer for that window, an SDL_Texture to render, and finally an SDL_Surface to create the texture from.
	It seems that the process of this takes up 9ms on my machine, no matter if I draw 1 single line on a surface or a hundred. I should find a faster way to display a single SDL_Surface in the window.

	* Probably SDL_UpdateTexture() is what slows down the process, from 3ms to 10ms latency.
	* SDL1 port added, it is faster, see below

* When something is too close to the projection plane or is behind it, the program will freeze or stutter.
* Only the triangles facing the eye should be rendered. Don't forget to implement this.
* The current implementation is **not** idiot-proof, use everything as intended. Variable and function names are pretty straightforward, but if something does not work, feel free to ask.


SDL1 vs. SDL2
-------------

The library can be compiled with SDL1 or SDL2, because it is only using SDL_Surface, which is the same in both SDL versions.
But I think SDL1 is better, because it is simpler (there is no separate renderer, texture, etc.). The benchmarks also tell the same:

Frames per second:
* With SDL1:
	* idle: 51-52
	* moving: 51-52
* With SDL2:
	* idle: 45-46
	* moving: 45-46

Yet there is a strange problem with SDL1. The "occlusion culling" is not working correctly, it does not render things that are in front of the camera, but go out of the visible space. But this has nothing to do with SDL itself, so I don't really know what's going on.
Update: now I know that the line drawing algorithm is the bad part, it does not work correctly with negative positions. I rewrote them, and now it's working.


Licence
-------

Not yet chosen, likely zlib or CC-by.



Contact
-------
You can contact me here on GitHub or via email at iamsemmu AT gmail DOT com
